along the dark edges of the solar system
it floats
anchored by a star but barely graced by
its warmth this traveler drifts alone as
deceptively calm and elusive as a deep
blue sea
neptune is the eighth planet from the
sun
at about 30 times the distance between
our star and the earth or 30
astronomical units
neptune is the most distant planet in
our solar system
this distance creates the longest orbit
of the eight worlds about
165 years with the seasons lasting a
little over 40 earth years each
being so far away from the heat and
light of the sun neptune is cold dark
and icy
at its heart is a solid core about one
and a half times the size of earth
making up about 45 of the planet's mass
the core is made of water ice and
silicate rock
the rest of the planet is believed to be
a hot pressurized ocean of water methane
and ammonia ices surrounded by a layer
of clouds these clouds predominantly
made of hydrogen and helium include
traces of methane which give this ocean
world its rich blue color
while the clouds create a cool calm
veneer from afar
up close they are whipped around by the
most severe weather in the solar system
winds on the planet reach speeds of over
1200 miles per hour nearly five times
faster than the strongest winds recorded
on earth
in fact the winds are so powerful that
they break the sound barrier
drifting high above this windy ice giant
is a quiet ecosystem of rings and
satellites
six rings encircle the planet with some
containing ring arcs or clusters of dust
particles in a ring
also revolving around the planet are 14
known moons with the largest called
triton
named after the sun of the ancient greek
sea god
triton has ice volcanoes and may even
contain a subsurface ocean
much is left to be discovered about
neptune its rings and its moons
only one spacecraft voyager 2 has
visited these cosmic bodies but future
missions to this mysterious icy world
would have even more stories to tell
[Music]
you